[Doc]--Add negative acknowledgement to python client docs. (#7148)
apache/pulsar: site2/website/versioned_docs/version-2.4.0/client-libraries-python.md

title: The Pulsar Python client
sidebar_label: Python
original_id: client-libraries-python
---

The Pulsar Python client library is a wrapper over the existing [C++ client library](client-libraries-cpp.md) and exposes all of the [same features](/api/cpp). You can find the code in the [`python` subdirectory](https://github.com/apache/pulsar/tree/master/pulsar-client-cpp/python) of the C++ client code.

## Installation

You can install the [`pulsar-client`](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pulsar-client) library either via [PyPi](https://pypi.python.org/pypi), using [pip](#installation-using-pip), or by building the library from source.

### Installation using pip

To install the `pulsar-client` library as a pre-built package using the [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) package manager:

```shell
$ pip install pulsar-client=={{pulsar:version_number}}
```

Installation via PyPi is available for the following Python versions:

Platform | Supported Python versions
:--------|:-------------------------
| MacOS<br /> 10.11 (El Capitan) — 10.12 (Sierra) — 10.13 (High Sierra) — 10.14 (Mojave)<br />| 2.7, 3.7
|Linux | 2.7, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7

### Installing from source

> To install the `pulsar-client` library by building from source, follow [these instructions](client-libraries-cpp.md#compilation) and compile the Pulsar C++ client library. That will also build the Python binding for the library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the `pulsar-client` library by building from source, follow [these instructions](client-libraries-cpp.md#compilation) and compile the Pulsar C++ client library. That also builds the Python binding for the library.
```

To install the built Python bindings:

```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/apache/pulsar
$ cd pulsar/pulsar-client-cpp/python
$ sudo python setup.py install
```

## API Reference

The complete Python API reference is available at [api/python](/api/python).

## Examples

> Below you'll find a variety of Python code examples for the `pulsar-client` library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find a variety of Python code examples for the `pulsar-client` library as below.
```

### Producer example

This creates a Python producer for the `my-topic` topic and send 10 messages on that topic:

```python
import pulsar

client = pulsar.Client('pulsar://localhost:6650')

producer = client.create_producer('my-topic')

for i in range(10):
    producer.send(('Hello-%d' % i).encode('utf-8'))

client.close()
```

### Consumer example

> This creates a consumer with the `my-subscription` subscription on the `my-topic` topic, listen for incoming messages, print the content and ID of messages that arrive, and acknowledge each message to the Pulsar broker:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example creates a consumer with the `my-subscription` subscription on the `my-topic` topic, listens for incoming messages, prints the content and ID of messages that arrive, and acknowledges each message to the Pulsar broker:
```

try:
    # No more messages expected
    msg = consumer.receive(100)
except:
    print("no more msg")
    pass
```

### Reader interface example

You can use the Pulsar Python API to use the Pulsar [reader interface](concepts-clients.md#reader-interface). Here's an example:

```python
# MessageId taken from a previously fetched message
msg_id = msg.message_id()

reader = client.create_reader('my-topic', msg_id)

while True:
    msg = reader.read_next()
    print("Received message '{}' id='{}'".format(msg.data(), msg.message_id()))
    # No acknowledgment
```

## Schema

### Declaring and validating schema

A schema can be declared by passing a class that inherits
from `pulsar.schema.Record` and defines the fields as
class variables. For example:

```python
from pulsar.schema import *

class Example(Record):
    a = String()
    b = Integer()
    c = Boolean()
```

With this simple schema definition we can then create producers,
consumers and readers instances that will be referring to that.

```python
producer = client.create_producer(
                    topic='my-topic',
                    schema=AvroSchema(Example) )

producer.send(Example(a='Hello', b=1))
```

> When the producer is created, the Pulsar broker will validate that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the producer is created, the Pulsar broker validates that
```

the existing topic schema is indeed of "Avro" type and that the
format is compatible with the schema definition of the `Example`
class.

> If there is a mismatch, the producer creation will raise an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is a mismatch, the producer creation raises an
```

exception.

Once a producer is created with a certain schema definition,

> it will only accept objects that are instances of the declared

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it only accepts objects that are instances of the declared
```

Reviewer: pls check all

schema class.

> Similarly, for a consumer/reader, the consumer will return an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, for a consumer/reader, the consumer returns an
```
